Download any project like Python from GitHub. Make a virtual environment and set up all needed configurations In Python pip and in JavaScript npm every needed packages should be installed then those files should be updated to the gitlab there we should be able to create a cicd pipeline as a beginner .gitlab-ci.yml The things I previously told have some issues. I will correct it in the following sentences. The correction. The required environments need not to be previously installed because When we run the CI/CD pipeline, it will automatically install everything on its own. We just need to aware that pip and other npm packages were available so that they can install themselves. All of these testing and deployment operations were carried out by the Gitlab runners. So, where do these runners run and execute the operations? The answer is these runners may be executed in Mac OS, Linux OS, Windows OS, as well as they can also be executed in the Docker container. Once the required main CICD pipeline file has been successfully added, you should click the commit changes. Then, the deployment will be started automatically. The required file screenshot has been shared in WhatsApp store room. If needed, we can also use a private docker image to separately host our website on it. For using that from the CI/CD pipeline from the GitLab, we need some authentication to be done before accessing it. So, for that, in CI/CD pipeline, we need to provide username and passwords for securely providing those username and passwords, we'll need to use a separate concept called variable. So, when these variables have been assigned with some values, it can be used in the CI/CD pipeline main code to login purpose.
https://youtu.be/z7nLsJvEyMY?si=c6LJyDG52JY_Mxkx
https://youtu.be/qP8kir2GUgo?si=jbV4zu-IaWOVvVZu
https://youtu.be/ptjmtckAIno?si=eN9tw92o0xO7XY7W

In CI/CD pipeline, the stages processes most important there were testing, image building and deploy stages, three stages. The stages will be executed once once the previous stage is executed completely, then the successive stage will be started. Once a single stage fails, all the processes will be stopped.
