First, you need to install Docker in your system. Then go to elastic.co. Install commands should be there in that website. Copy the command, go to terminal, go inside Docker by starting it and paste those elastic commands and hit enter. You will be getting elastic server inside Docker. You can provide indexing for each records so that it can be categorized with similarities with neighboring records and saved efficiently. There are sharding and Replication concepts. Sharding is like storing a vast amount of data separately. Like we can store records by applying I modulo four of hash function so that the whole records can be split into four tables. It is the sharding. Replication factors are given to replicate the overall table to ensure the availability and consistency. For inserting a document in elastic search, it can only be done as the documents can only be stored as JSON. The field data types can be automatically decided by the elastic server. You can also do the field declarations manually, but this is only required in some cases. But the field declaration should be done before the index creation. Once the index creation is done, you cannot modify the field data types. There are some common data types. First one is keyword in which email IDs, names, card IDs, similar things were stored. Then Boolean. In which true or false is stored, then the number data type, date data type, these are all mentioned above were available to search in elastic search. But there is a data type called binary in which the images were hashed base 64 and stored which will be usually around two lakh to three lakh characters and they were very difficult to store in elastic search and available for search. So because of that in elastic search these binary data will not be available as a searchable field.


Now we are going to see about JSON data type in which ordinary JSON and there is a flattened JSON. The flattened JSON in which as you can see the more deeply deepened hierarchical JSONs will be flattened and available in a first and second tier keys. It is super efficient We can delete a document by providing index and ID of the document. If the provided ID exists, then the document will be deleted. If it does not exist, it throws an exception. There is a feature called get document that too works as same as the delete document. There is a feature called count document in which you should be providing index and you will get back the number of documents stored in that particular index. You can also additionally provide query so that if let's say the documents that contain holiday in it, so in the particular index, the count function will retrieve all the documents that contain holiday in it. to retrieve the data but by using it, we will be losing the hierarchical data of the JSON. Then there is a type called nested JSON in which an array of objects will be stored. And there is a search text data field which is used to search texts from the last. Then there is a geo spatial data type in which latitudes and longitudes of map coordinates can be stored.


You use Beats to grab raw data instantly, pass it to Logstash to clean up the mess, which then sends it to Elasticsearch. Elasticsearch breaks that data into JSON Documents, maps the text using an Inverted Index, splits it into Shards across servers for speed, and lets you visualize it all easily using Kibana—all while your Java or Python applications talk to it natively via APIs.



There were four modules in the beats. First one is inputs in which you will be figuring out which are the data that are need to be collected. Then there is a module called harvesters which actually reads the data from the source line by line and tracks where they lift off and actually it reads all the data line by line like reading a paragraph. Then comes the module called internal queue in which the all the red data from the harvesters will be stored in this internal queue. It is an queue that contains some data. Then there is output module which takes the data from the internal queue and delivers the output to the required services. It delivers the output to the elastic search if the data was clean and ready to store in elastic search server. If the data contain any complexities then the data directly pushed into the logs stack. There is a back pressure handling system which is a good thing in beats which handles and promises no data loss and it promises that all the data will be delivered at least once. If there were any slowness in elastic search or in the log stack, then the output module will not take data from the internal queue. If the internal queue fills up, then the harvester suddenly slows down and stops taking data temporarily.



A Beats agent on a web server notices a user clicked a page and grabs the text log.
2 The Beat ships it to the Logstash Beats Input Module.
3 Logstash receives the raw string and puts it into its disk-based Persistent Queue.
4 A Pipeline Worker Thread picks up the log batch.
5 The Grok Filter tears the text string apart into structural fields; the GeoIP Filter adds location data.
6 The Elasticsearch Output Module receives the newly structured JSON event and fires it across the network into an Elasticsearch cluster, where it is instantly indexed and made viewable on a Kibana chart.