kubernetes is a service which is used to control the containers like docker there are small units like pot inside the pots there can only be a single main docker or container Which usually placed, with some side containers like database and some other containers. Are we this main container as a main application, and it is inside the unit component like Yeah. The communication between them will be done using the service. Because service is done static IP, which is being allocated to all the individual containers in a pod. It is because when many of the doctor is he it will be replaced by another similar docker. But its IP will be changed. That is why the service is used for communication, which maintain the IPs. So changing IPs frequently won't be needed.Then other services straight to connect with Kubernetes. It should be landed in the ingress of the Kubernetes. Then ingress forwards this call to the service.The whole Kubernetes commonly will have a feature called configuration map. In which all the common URLs were stored, like MongoDB's URL and other APIs common URLs. And common datas keys, all of them. But should not store credentials and secret. So for that, Kubernetes have a feature called secret globally for Kubernetes. The difference between configuration map and secret is both are Present globally to be used in any of the parts of Kubernetes. But you will store common day pass and other lenient data sync configuration map, but you'll only store the passwords, credentials, and certificates in secret for security purposes. Both will be accessible through the common environmental variable throughout the Kubernetes in each of the pods.Always. External hard drive or a cloud storage will be connected to a port, which stores or copies the database datas in it. If the database of a port fails, you can retrieve the data from the hard disk. Then what if the The main container of the pod sales So we should be replicating the pause So there will be no data loss. So between the main containers of the two replicated pods. The main containers will be controlled by feature called deployment in which you'll be mentioning how many replicas or clones will be generated for a single pod. In reality, we won't be creating parts We just configure the deployment file. It will handle the creation. On its own. In order to maintain the database, replicas are clones, There will be a feature called stateful.The stateful feature is used to maintain the databases import because in databases, you will not be able to read or write when already the right operation is going on. For data concurrency. For which you can only be maintaining it with stateful features and not the deployment feature. This will be so tedious process.In all the notes, Container runtime will be installed. Which may be Docker for Docker. And for other services, respectively. And there will be also Cuba lettuce, which manages the runtime feature as well as assigning the resources link RAM storage, etcetera, to the running notes and databases. In a node For pod to pod communication, The request will be first sent to Cubelux proxy, which, again, installed in each of the parts Then the request from Cuberlix proxy will be redirected to the DB service. It's just previously discussed as service which holds static IP. Then the request will be sent to the other part as the service will be acting as some load balancer here.On top of all pods as I previously mentioned. There will be notes. The notes contain the cubel letters Contain container. One time environment. And numerous number of node parts in it. Single part will be containing Respect the services. So multiple nodes can be managed using master. Master in which there will be API server which access and gateway for the AP calls. It will handle authenticity, authentication of the user and Let's play the call inside the master, then the scheduler comes into play. Which manages the availability of other nodes and will allocate the API call to prospective notes. If all the notes are busy, it will create a new note. For the API call. Then there is Controller manager, which monitors if ringing more things. Any node or pod fails it will intimate the information to the scheduler. The scheduler, again duplicates or recovers the pod or node in the structure. UTCD, a feature which scores all the master information by gateway gateway and other handling informations. In it as a storage. Feature for master. There will be numerous masters, and all will be load balance centrally. In the Kubernetes.