for DNS, a website will be entered for the get call. First, there are 13 root servers in the entire world through which we can retrieve the IP address of any domains. Once the root server, it's the request for IP address. It gives the IP address of the top-level domain TLD, which often .com, .gov, .in, something. Once the TLD receives the request for IP address, it sends the IP address of the authoritative servers IP address. Then, for that received IP address, a call will be sent. Then, the authoritative server will respond with the IP address, actual IP address of the domain.

key-value stores json, graph stores, column db reads through column wise unlike the traditional db read through row wise, and document db stores files

There two types data intensive application and computation intensive application no sql dbs - json,column db In SQL, we can only be able to read rows from left column to the right end column followed by row one, row two, row three sequentially only. It is very time-consuming process hence in the scenario where if we have 5000 to 6000 column but we only need two to three columns values. In this case, we will be using column DB which will be allowing us to read only those one or two columns which is way more efficient than the SQL. It is the main advantage of column DB.If we use column DB for read operation, it is more efficient. But if we use columns DB for more right intensive application, it will be less efficient since in writing column DB, it will take more time than the SQL.

Graph databases excel at managing highly interconnected data, offering exceptional query performance for complex relationships and flexible schema adaptations that simplify evolving data models. However, they suffer from poor scalability with massive datasets, lack standardized query languages across vendors, and exhibit lower efficiency for high-volume, simple transactional operations. Conversely, document databases provide outstanding scalability through horizontal sharding, high write throughput, and a flexible, schema-less structure perfectly suited for diverse JSON-like semi-structured data. Yet, they struggle significantly with complex multi-document joins, face an increased risk of data duplication, and lack strict data integrity constraints. Choosing between them depends entirely on whether relationships or document structures dominate your workload. While graph databases optimize deep data traversal, document databases prioritize rapid horizontal scaling and independent data storage. Ultimately, developers must weigh relation-heavy performance against document-centric flexibility when architecting modern application backends.

In the cache concept, first one was cache hit, which means the required data was present in the cache. So, the request need not to be reaching the database. Hence, once the cache data is retrieved, it will give the response and it is the fastest response. Second concept was cache miss, in which the required data will not be available in the cache. So, the data required will be retrieved from the database. Hence, the data will be retrieved a bit more slower. Then the third concept in which it is called as time to leave in which algorithm will be used to free the cache from filling like removing the data from the cache for efficiency

in cache there were several concepts first one was read through cache in which the read operation taken place in the cache whereas if there is an cache hit the read will be faster if there is an cache miss then the data will be retrieved from the database there is a second concept called write through cache in which the data will be written directly on the cache then for updation the cache will write the updated data to the database write around cache in which these read through and write through concepts combined to make a system called the write around cache write back cache in which this same process in which additionally the writing process on the database will be a sync process

Cache removing policy least recently used. Most recently used ,least frequently used First in first out, last in first out.Load balancing algorithms, round robin, geo location based algorithm, number of connections per server based algorithm. Least time algorithm means the server which gives least response time for checking will be assigned with the process. IP hashing algorithm, weighted round robin algorithm. The replication have several concepts, a single leader replication, multiple leader replication, leaderless replication.

There were three concepts in the rate limiting algorithms. Leaky bucket algorithm which works as a Kafka model. Second one was the token bucket model which is the most popular one and used in many tech giants. In this model There will be a token bucket limit and the rate limit, which means number of tokens will be refilled into the bucket. Uh, when a request is coming, a token will be reduced from the bucket. Let's say the bucket size is 10 tokens and initially the bucket is filled. So, when there were nine requests at the first second, the token bucket size will be one and nine tokens will be gone. Let's say the rate limit was one token per second. So, after one second, uh, the tokens in the bucket will be two. If three requests arrive, only two will be completed and third will be rejected. It can only process up to eight requests when eight seconds have been passed without any requests. The third algorithm was the sliding window algorithm in which there will be no fixed window of timing like the previous algorithms because Let's say for 10 minutes we are allowing 10 API calls. As the time goes from 1 to 9 minutes, there were no calls, but at the 10th minute, there were nine API calls were sent. Then when we move on to 11th to 20th minute window in which when in 11th minute a single API call hits, so there will be no problem. At the 12th minute, if there is a single API call hits, there will be a problem because at the 10th minute, we have processed nine requests. At 11th minute, we have processed one request, so totally 10 requests is processing. But when 12th minute a request came, but from third minute till 13th minute, we will be having more than 10 requests, which will be rejected. So, it is a most useful algorithm, but it is a very complicated algorithm and memory complex algorithm. So, it will not be used by many of the companies.

Content delivery network CDN which delivers the static content of the web pages like HTML image and video data which acts as an cache layer stores these frequently used HTML and image and video data for websites typically when it doesn't have the required images or video data it will request from any database or any S3 buckets from Amazon

